what is up guys and our credits don't
here with another minecraft video
tutorial for you guys today I have a
decimal binary counter and if you have
no idea what this is or what a binary
counter is I'll check out the
description i have a link to cube
hamsters video on binary but anyway this
is just a simple binary counter and I'll
go ahead and reset it real quick and
this will only work in the new snapshot
as you can see I'm playing in 12 w 30 b
and this action will work in one point
two point five on the 0 & 2 access but
because of the piston fixes in 1.3 and
also works on the one and three axis so
i'll go ahead and show you both of them
working just so you know i'm not talking
on my ass so anyway we go ahead and
press it you can see it account press
again as you see and there is somewhat
of a delay to the displays and that is
because of the way that you have to
power these in 1.3 so anyway i'm not
going to make you guys suffer through it
but you can see it's working if i come
over here and press this right here see
it also works no mods nothing just
playing in the latest snapshot so anyway
as you see that counts as well and the
reason you have to have this purple line
the way it is instead of like this
purple line is because i will show you
if i go ahead and press this right here
you can see that they all pushed it up
but as soon as i got pushed up they all
all the Pistons extend it and that is
because in the latest snapshot if you
take a block like so
and you push power into it and if you
push power into the block it's now
powering this block right here which
powers the piston head which powers the
piston and now that's just a new feature
in 1.3 we're powering a piston head will
actually power piston itself so anyway
that's one of the changes to the Pistons
so that's why this won't work because as
you can see they're all extended and no
manner yeah no matter how many times i
press this button this will not move any
of these blocks or allow them to move
however this method does because why the
one tick pulse is being emitted this
torch which powers this whole line is
being turned off and allows the piston
to retract before it powers this again
so there's actually block disc distance
also you want to put redstone repeaters
here if you put redstone dust right
there you'll actually create a bud
switch and you don't want to have that
for your creation so definitely make
sure these are repeaters as well it's
pretty simple to build I'll show you
guys how to build it real quick I will
start off with the red label layer real
quick so you're going to want to start
make two blocks and the center the two
blocks place a sticky piston and place a
block on top of sticky piston play some
dust here and a block they are a button
there and a repeater here just like so
make sure the repeater stays on one tick
then you replace a piston a space fist
in space piston space then we're going
to go ahead and we're going to put down
the purple layer like so on each of
these purple layers you're going to want
to put a repeater and then on top of
each of these you're going to want to
put the symbol just like so and so now
this will count for you just find on a
problem however you have no way to read
the outputs and so if you do want to go
ahead and read the outputs you want to
place
block right here right next to this dust
right there you want to place a redstone
torch on top of the redstone torch on
block and then a block to the side so
you have a little shape like this and
then you just want to carry this all the
way down to the last piston and place
blocks lining up with these cyan and
then you want to place a whole layer
redstone dust and next to each layer of
redstone dust you want to place a
repeater and don't worry about modifying
the tix then you can on the side go
ahead and place your redstone torches
now if you want to place thus or place
another way to get power out of it don't
place dust because once again they'll
create a blood switch so you're also
going to want over Peters on the side if
you want to do that and that way it just
gets rid of the bud switch and now you
can actually pull power out of this side
as well and put it into a line for a
decimal display or however you want to
do it so now if i press these you can
see as well he'll go up and it'll start
counting again and of course only the
correct for Peter the corresponds will
turn on and then you can connect those
repeaters to whatever line you feel like
it so anyway guys thanks for watching
this has been doc redstone please rate
comment subscribe thanks guys peace out